tools/validate-cosmos-grpc-endpoint/README.md, before:

# Cosmos gRPC Endpoint Validation Script

Cosmos SDK chains expose a gRPC interface for application and module queries (account state, balances, staking, etc.). In the Cosmos ecosystem it plays a role similar to JSON-RPC in the EVM (Ethereum Virtual Machine) world: the standard way for clients to query chain state. This script checks that the endpoint is reachable and, when possible, that it exposes the expected gRPC services. The service typically listens on a dedicated port (e.g. **9090**).

Other endpoint types (EVM RPC, Tendermint RPC) have their own validators in this directory.

## What is validated

1. **URL / host:port normalization and validation** — Extracts host and port. **No default port is added** when omitted; the server or load balancer handles routing.
2. **DNS resolution** — Hostname resolves correctly.
3. **gRPC port connectivity** — If **grpcurl** is installed, the script uses it to verify that the gRPC server responds (`grpcurl list`); this is the recommended check. If grpcurl is not available, a raw TCP probe (nc or bash /dev/tcp) is used as fallback; that can fail on some networks or firewalls even when gRPC works, so installing grpcurl is recommended.
4. **SSL certificate (when HTTPS)** — If the URL uses HTTPS, the certificate is validated with OpenSSL (validity and expiration). Skipped for HTTP.
5. **gRPC service list (optional)** — If `grpcurl` is installed, tries to list services (plaintext or TLS) to confirm a gRPC server is present.
6. **CORS headers (optional)** — If the same host/port responds to HTTP OPTIONS or POST, CORS headers are reported. Many gRPC-only endpoints do not respond to HTTP; in that case the check is skipped and no failure is reported.
7. **Security headers (optional)** — If the endpoint responds to HTTP, common security headers (e.g. X-Frame-Options, Strict-Transport-Security) are checked. Skipped when the endpoint is gRPC-only.

## Requirements

The script uses the following tools (when available):

- **grpcurl** — **Recommended.** When installed, step 3 (connectivity) and step 5 (service list) use it to validate the gRPC endpoint. Without it, step 3 falls back to a raw TCP check (nc or /dev/tcp), which can fail even when gRPC works (e.g. on macOS or behind some firewalls). Install: `brew install grpcurl` (macOS); on Ubuntu/Debian: `sudo snap install grpcurl` or, if that package is only on the edge channel, `sudo snap install --edge grpcurl`; or see [grpcurl releases](https://github.com/fullstorydev/grpcurl/releases).
- `nc` (netcat) or `/dev/tcp` — Fallback for port connectivity when grpcurl is not installed.
- `openssl` — For SSL certificate validation when using HTTPS.
- `curl` — For optional CORS and security header checks.
- `host`, `dig`, or `nslookup` — For DNS resolution.

## Usage

```bash
./validate-cosmos-grpc-endpoint.sh <URL_or_host:port>
```

### Examples

```bash
# HTTPS with explicit port (typical 9090)
./validate-cosmos-grpc-endpoint.sh https://grpc.example.com:9090

# Hostname and port only (no protocol)
./validate-cosmos-grpc-endpoint.sh grpc.example.com:9090

# Local or internal gRPC endpoint
./validate-cosmos-grpc-endpoint.sh localhost:9090

# URL without port (no default port is added; server handles routing; some optional probes may contact 443 or 9090 only to attempt the check)
./validate-cosmos-grpc-endpoint.sh grpc.example.com
```

## Output

The script uses color codes for readability (✓ green passed, ✗ red failed, ⚠ yellow warnings, ℹ blue info) and a final summary with the number of checks passed or failed.

## Exit codes

- `0`: All validations passed.
- `1`: One or more validations failed or an error occurred.

## Compatibility

The script is compatible with Linux, macOS, BSD, and any Unix-like system with bash 4.0+.

## Notes

- Default timeout is 10 seconds for connections.
- **No default ports**: If no port is specified, the URL is left without a port so the server or load balancer can handle redirections; the optional gRPC probe may try a standard port for the check only (e.g. 9090 for plaintext gRPC).
- **CORS and security headers**: These are checked only when the endpoint responds to HTTP (e.g. GET/OPTIONS). Pure gRPC servers often do not; the script then reports that these checks are not applicable and does not fail.

## Authorship and rights

**Copyright 2025, Deep Thought Labs.**

This tool is part of the **Infinite Drive** ecosystem (**Project 42**).

- **Infinite Drive**: [https://infinitedrive.xyz](https://infinitedrive.xyz) · [https://docs.infinitedrive.xyz](https://docs.infinitedrive.xyz)
- **Deep Thought Labs**: [https://deep-thought.computer](https://deep-thought.computer)

Commit message:

tools: shared endpoint validation and consistent validator behaviour
- Add scripts/endpoint-validation-common.sh with shared helpers: colors,
  print_*, test_dns_resolution, url_has_scheme, protocol_default_port,
  step_timer_start/step_timer_elapsed, print_incomplete_validation_hint,
  print_credits.

- Cosmos gRPC validator: source common script; use protocol default port
  only when user specified scheme (no port guessing); skip gRPC service
  check when no protocol/port and show hints; try grpcurl -insecure in
  step 3 and 5 when TLS cert fails; report step 4 and 5 timing; add
  README section on gRPC/HTTPS and step timing.

- Cosmos RPC and EVM validators: source common script; set
  USER_SPECIFIED_PROTOCOL via url_has_scheme; report step timing (Cosmos
  RPC step 4, EVM steps 4–6); update READMEs to mention shared script and
  timing.

- Add tools/scripts/README.md documenting common script usage and
  endpoint practices.

tools/validate-cosmos-grpc-endpoint/README.md, after:

# Cosmos gRPC Endpoint Validation Script

Cosmos SDK chains expose a gRPC interface for application and module queries (account state, balances, staking, etc.). In the Cosmos ecosystem it plays a role similar to JSON-RPC in the EVM (Ethereum Virtual Machine) world: the standard way for clients to query chain state. This script checks that the endpoint is reachable and, when possible, that it exposes the expected gRPC services. The service typically listens on a dedicated port (e.g. **9090**).

Other endpoint types (EVM RPC, Tendermint RPC) have their own validators in this directory.

## What is validated

1. **URL / host:port normalization and validation** — Extracts host and port. **No default port is added** when omitted; the server or load balancer handles routing.
2. **DNS resolution** — Hostname resolves correctly.
3. **gRPC port connectivity** — If **grpcurl** is installed, the script uses it to verify that the gRPC server responds (`grpcurl list`); this is the recommended check. If grpcurl is not available, a raw TCP probe (nc or bash /dev/tcp) is used as fallback; that can fail on some networks or firewalls even when gRPC works, so installing grpcurl is recommended.
4. **SSL certificate (when HTTPS)** — If the URL uses HTTPS, the certificate is validated with OpenSSL (validity and expiration). Skipped for HTTP.
5. **gRPC service list (optional)** — If `grpcurl` is installed, tries to list services: plaintext, then TLS, then TLS with `-insecure` (e.g. when the certificate is self-signed or invalid). When **no port is specified**: if the user **did** specify a protocol (`https://` or `http://`), the script uses only that protocol’s default port (443 or 80) for this probe, so the endpoint URL remains without a port and the server handles the request on that default. If the user passed **only a hostname** (no protocol, no port), the script does **not** assume a port or protocol and **skips** the gRPC service check (endpoint remains as given; server handles redirection). When the server responds, it calls `GetNodeInfo` and `GetLatestBlock`; chain ID, node version, app name, latest block height, and block time are shown in the **validation summary**. If this information could not be retrieved, the summary states that explicitly.
6. **CORS headers (optional)** — If the same host/port responds to HTTP OPTIONS or POST, CORS headers are reported. Many gRPC-only endpoints do not respond to HTTP; in that case the check is skipped and no failure is reported.
7. **Security headers (optional)** — If the endpoint responds to HTTP, common security headers (e.g. X-Frame-Options, Strict-Transport-Security) are checked. Skipped when the endpoint is gRPC-only.

## Requirements

The script uses the following tools (when available):

- **grpcurl** — **Recommended.** When installed, step 3 (connectivity) and step 5 (service list) use it to validate the gRPC endpoint. Without it, step 3 falls back to a raw TCP check (nc or /dev/tcp), which can fail even when gRPC works (e.g. on macOS or behind some firewalls). Install: `brew install grpcurl` (macOS); on Ubuntu/Debian: `sudo snap install grpcurl` or, if that package is only on the edge channel, `sudo snap install --edge grpcurl`; or see [grpcurl releases](https://github.com/fullstorydev/grpcurl/releases).
- `nc` (netcat) or `/dev/tcp` — Fallback for port connectivity when grpcurl is not installed.
- `openssl` — For SSL certificate validation when using HTTPS.
- `curl` — For optional CORS and security header checks.
- `host`, `dig`, or `nslookup` — For DNS resolution.

## Usage

```bash
./validate-cosmos-grpc-endpoint.sh <URL_or_host:port>
```

### Examples

```bash
# HTTPS with explicit port (typical 9090)
./validate-cosmos-grpc-endpoint.sh https://grpc.example.com:9090

# Hostname and port only (no protocol)
./validate-cosmos-grpc-endpoint.sh grpc.example.com:9090

# Local or internal gRPC endpoint
./validate-cosmos-grpc-endpoint.sh localhost:9090

# URL without port (no default port is added; server handles routing; optional probe uses only protocol default port 443 for HTTPS)
./validate-cosmos-grpc-endpoint.sh grpc.example.com
```

## Output

The script uses color codes for readability (✓ green passed, ✗ red failed, ⚠ yellow warnings, ℹ blue info) and a final summary with the number of checks passed or failed. When `grpcurl` is available and the gRPC server responds, the summary shows **endpoint information** from `GetNodeInfo` and `GetLatestBlock`: **Chain ID**, **node version** (Tendermint/CometBFT), **app name**, **latest block height**, and **latest block time**. If this information could not be retrieved, the summary reports that explicitly.

## Exit codes

- `0`: All validations passed.
- `1`: One or more validations failed or an error occurred.

## Compatibility

The script is compatible with Linux, macOS, BSD, and any Unix-like system with bash 4.0+.

## gRPC and HTTPS / TLS

Both usage patterns are valid in the Cosmos ecosystem:

- **Plaintext on 9090** — Common for internal or trusted networks; no TLS.
- **TLS on 443** — Common for public endpoints (e.g. `https://grpc.example.com`); the same hostname often serves gRPC over TLS on 443 behind a proxy or load balancer.

Using **HTTPS in the URL** (e.g. `https://grpc.infinitedrive.xyz`) is correct when the service is actually offered on port 443 with TLS. When no port is specified, the script does not impose one: it uses only the **protocol default** (443 for HTTPS, 80 for HTTP) for the optional gRPC probe, so the server handles the request on its default port. If **OpenSSL reports "Could not validate SSL certificate"** but the gRPC service responds with `grpcurl -insecure`, the endpoint is working; the message indicates a certificate chain or SNI issue (e.g. self-signed, wrong hostname, or incomplete chain), not that HTTPS is wrong for gRPC.

## Notes

- Default timeout is 10 seconds for connections.
- **No default ports**: If no port is specified, the URL is left without a port so the **server** handles redirection. The script does not guess: for the optional gRPC probe it uses a port **only when the user explicitly passed a protocol** (`https://` or `http://`), and then only that protocol’s default (443 or 80). If the user passed **only a hostname** (no `https://`, no `http://`, no port), only the **gRPC service check** (step 5: list services, GetNodeInfo/GetLatestBlock) is skipped, so we do not assume a port. The rest of the script still runs: DNS resolution, optional CORS and security header checks (which may send HTTP/HTTPS requests to the host). To get gRPC validation and chain info with only a hostname, pass a protocol (e.g. `https://grpc.example.com`) so the script can use that protocol’s default port for the probe.
- **TLS -insecure**: If TLS certificate validation fails, the script still tries `grpcurl -insecure` so the gRPC service can be validated (e.g. self-signed certs); a warning is shown when verification was skipped.
- **Step timing**: Steps 4 (SSL) and 5 (gRPC service check) print **"Step N completed in Xs"** so you can see how long each step took and spot slow or failing connections.
- **CORS and security headers**: These are checked only when the endpoint responds to HTTP (e.g. GET/OPTIONS). Pure gRPC servers often do not; the script then reports that these checks are not applicable and does not fail.

## Authorship and rights

**Copyright 2025, Deep Thought Labs.**

This tool is part of the **Infinite Drive** ecosystem (**Project 42**).

- **Infinite Drive**: [https://infinitedrive.xyz](https://infinitedrive.xyz) · [https://docs.infinitedrive.xyz](https://docs.infinitedrive.xyz)
- **Deep Thought Labs**: [https://deep-thought.computer](https://deep-thought.computer)
